IoT is an interconnected computing device, mechanical and digital machine that provides unique identifiers (Unique identifiers UIDs are commonly used within the healthcare industry. Reporting medical information with the patient's name, a personal code is created) to objects, animals or humans, and the ability to transfer data through a network, which can perform human-to-human or human-to-computer interactions. While connected to the Internet, the Internet of Things (IoT) seamlessly opens up a world of possibilities for treatment in this biodiversity. The advancement in technology has changed the world of thought as well as the development of smartphones and other handheld gadgets. Health is the root of all happiness.
Over the past few years, the modern technology and gadgets have been developed and developed to monitor critical resources in healthcare and other hospitals. But most of these systems are just maintaining a database of patients. Few of the hospitals have tele-health or health system, but these systems have just implemented telemedicine via the technologies of telecommunication, teleconferencing and video conferencing etc. Literature has shown that these systems lack quality and are expensive and we need a better communication and monitoring system. If we talk about HMIS from all around the world, there are some countries, which have better mobile patient care systems. But still, we lack monitoring, communication and tracking of assets and patients. And there is no common framework to manage the patients and other assets at one platform. Hence, so far all the development in the field of health we lack a common communication environment or structural platform, therefore we are proposing an architectural framework that describes the components of hospital-based IoT and their communication at one common platform in an organized way for the better quality of HMIS. We have targeted large scale and medium scale hospitals because only these hospitals have the capabilities to implement this system.

IoT is an emerging technology, which we can find in every field of life. IoT is the fourth generation of the technology revolution of information realm moreover to execute smart recognition, locating, tracking, following, checking and administration, by methods of GPS, infrared sensors, laser scanners, radio frequency identification (RFID) and some other data sensor devices, as indicated by traditional practice [2]. IoT can be defined as; a technology that allows the connection of anything and anyone, anywhere, at any time possibly using any path, network or service [1]. Figure 1 [3], shows the new dimension of communication and information technology i.e. IoT. From the initiation of IoT in Auto-ID Center at MIT toward the start of 2000 

